hi friends what's up welcome back to my
channel today
i am going to be reviewing emma
chamberlain's what i eat in a day with
harper's bazaar
i figured it would just be a really fun
thing to watch together it'll be
entertaining and as a nutritionist for
petite women i actually never realized
this but emma is 5'4
so she technically fits the petite
504 and under kind of fake cut off if
you're just going by the fashion
industry standard of
petite or short so i figured we could
wash this together
i will react in live time we can kind of
critique what she's eating
see what she could be doing better what
she's doing really well and i'm hoping i
haven't watched it yet i'm hoping she
maybe dropped some
chats about what she does for her
fitness or any other
healthy lifestyle things to give us some
things to talk about and just for some
interesting conversation
so let's get into it and actually before
we
just jump in i do kind of want to make a
note about like what i eat in a days
because when mega influencers like emma
chamberlain
talk about what they eat in a day and
even small creators i just want you guys
to know
it is a usually an idealistic thing
just take these things with a grain of
salt when you see people's like perfect
instagram worthy depictions of what they
eat in a day they're probably not eating
like that 100 of the time
just you know remember nobody's a robot
nobody's perfect nobody's cooking six
meals a day for themselves
and you know like being perfect there's
gonna be days where you have things that
aren't healthy and that's totally fine
that should also be a part of your diet
the foods you love the things that are
fun anyways we'll get into it i just
want to say i haven't seen it yet
but if it's like perfect influence her
life i mean that's not emma chamberlain
i mean that's why we love her right
because she's not perfect but
if we do see that just you know remember
this was probably produced and
a more glamorized idealistic version of
what she might enjoy in a day okay now
let's get into it
here we go hi i'm emma chamberlain and
this is everything i eat in a day
the first thing i do when i wake up is
check the time
because i actually don't really set
alarms so and if i got any pressing
texts or emails or anything i'll respond
to those
and then it's coffee time immediately i
get right out of bed don't brush my
teeth
don't wash my face i go straight
downstairs
to either make my first coffee or go get
coffee with someone
i have no judgment for emma i think
honestly the reason why we love her is
that she just
gives zero f's about things like she's
just herself and
i mean this is not nutrition related
right but it is refreshing to see
someone say that they get out of bed
and get coffee with a friend without
like looking in the mirror or like
brushing their hair brushing their teeth
or anything
no judgment obviously you guys know i
love matcha and i would replace that
routine with the matcha
but emma is the commodity queen i would
say
of you know regular everyday things and
um relatable stuff so
of course she drinks coffee let's
continue i'm making coffee
i'm using my brand chamberlain coffee
every day it would be kind of weird if i
didn't right
so i'll usually hashtag sponsored
okay a latte and i take
two shots of espresso put some vanilla
almond milk in it
unsweetened khalifa brand will not
accept any other
they threw in that picture of khalifa uh
i make the same thing but with matcha i
do
a shot of matcha almond milk vanilla
unsweetened
honestly that kleepha brand for me does
not foam well
curious how she she's saying maybe she
says she doesn't use his brand
the khalifa brand doesn't fall them all
for me when i try to make a latte
doesn't have enough like
it's mostly water so that's why you
can't get the foam as you can with you
know a fatty or milk like a whole milk
or
whatever um but i do the same thing in
the morning however i don't always have
caffeine on an empty stomach i will make
a note about that so
there is some research that shows that
drinking caffeine on an empty stomach
first thing when you wake up
while yes caffeine can boost your
metabolism temporarily can have some
metabolism
boosting effects it also can increase
your
stress hormones it can increase um
it can just pump your adrenals really
hard which if they're overworking
from other things like say you don't
sleep a lot you have high stress levels
from
working a lot over working out over
exercising
if you feel like you experience adrenal
fatigue having caffeine on an empty
stomach first thing in the morning every
morning can
exacerbate that but that's not everyone
i sometimes do have a matcha
before i work out as the first thing in
the morning
i don't experience any adrenal fatigue
my hormones are balanced
but for someone who does have a ton of
stress already
maybe just look at that if you have
caffeine on empty stomach it could be
contributing to those stress factors
just something about
and then i put vanilla nut pod
creamer in it and that's my home recipe
when i'm going out for coffee recently
i've been getting cold brew with almond
milk uh the creamer is interesting
i will say i used to be a religious
like add creamer to my matcha or back
when i drink coffee four years ago
you know coffee however a lot of petite
women
and i have people in general aren't
aware of the fat content in cream art
yeah you're only using a little bit but
if you have like three coffees a day
and you have you know three tablespoons
in each one it can easily add up to be
really really high in fat it's good to
have fats you need fats in your diet
but just be and you know just keep in
mind that petite women
in general can it's very easy to rack up
the fats
fats are the most calorically dense
macronutrient packing nine calories per
gram of fat
versus carbs or protein which have four
calorie calories per gram of
protein or carb so when you're having
lots and lots of fat it can add up
really fast it can be really caloric
and it's one thing that i've noticed
whenever we have women join a petite
power program they do their food journal
we can see you know petite women easily
racking up you know
over 100 100 whatever grams of fat which
is typically
typically too high for a petite woman
depending on her goals her starting
body composition and a multitude of
other factors but just something to keep
in mind
when i started tracking my macros and
learning about my nutrition
i realized that like free pouring the
olive oil and free pouring the
um creamer was adding up for me and i
would rather get my fats from
food than liquids because there's fiber
in food so if you get your fats from
avocado you get the benefit of having
the fiber which keeps you full keeps you
satiated
whereas when you're just drinking liquid
fat yes it's a satiating macronutrient
it takes a long time to break down fats
in the in the digestive tract
however it's always better to eat your
calories in my opinion i
used to not be a breakfast person but
recently
i've been really hungry in the mornings
and i don't know why my
breakfast almost every single day is two
fried eggs
very very cooked like probably
too well done to a point where most
people wouldn't want to eat it
i like my eggs almost burnt mmm
nothing better than that i guess it's
over hard eggs two overheard eggs
salt on it pepper on it everything but
the bagel seasoning on it
and then i put some cholula on that
and then i cut up a whole avocado
put that on top and then i eat it and
that's my breakfast every day it's like
nice and light
okay first of all i love eggs if you can
eat eggs they're a great source of
nutrients for
the nutrients found in the yolk and the
fats and then also the egg whites which
are high in protein
so i love them i have eggs pretty much
every day in some form
and the avocado is obviously fantastic
as well for a healthy source of fats
and fiber now the fact that she cooks
her yolk all the way through i
it's funny you should eat your yolks the
way you want and remember what i'm
telling you is just information you can
use it
at your discretion it's not like you
have to change
everything the way that you do it it's
just good to know about what you're
eating
there is some research that shows that
the yolks contain more nutrients
in their uncooked forms so like a
runny egg or like a sunny side up type
egg versus it cooked all the way through
that's why i prefer to have runny eggs i
also just find it more delicious
but if you like your egg yolks cooked
through that's fine just something to
know
and also i want to talk about
the egg and avocado toast situation now
this is a really popular breakfast and
for
good reason it's very balanced it's pff
balance so protein fats and fibrous
carbs
the eggs are the protein the yolk is the
fat the avocado is the fat and the fiber
and then the toast is usually
a carb a starchy carb or a a um
a source of fiber as well if it's fiber
fortified or if it's a certain type of
bread it'll have some fiber in it
now that makes it pff balanced but going
back to what i said about fats
what i know for most petite women to be
true is
like i said fats can add up really well
really fast so
if you're going to breakfast and you're
having she said an entire avocado
i personally my portion size would be
half an avocado
depending on a lot of things but for the
most part
in a meal i'm having maybe 10 grams of
fat maybe 12 or 15
but not more than 20 in a single meal
that would just be
a lot to have in a meal um you know 15
grams of fat really solid
but if you're having an entire avocado
and two egg yolks that's gonna be
probably around 25 grams of fat could be
30 could be 35
40 grams of fat pretty easily so you
know
when i go out and i order these types of
things either i'll get egg whites with
the avocado and the toast or
i will get the eggs the egg yolks and
the toast and maybe something
else to help get the fiber up maybe
there's like a yogurt boy get with chia
seeds get the chia seed fiber
situation fix from that so that's just
something i personally have learned
about my nutrition and i
educate petite women on as far as if
your goal is
fat loss and building muscle your
strength training already and you're
trying to learn about your nutrition
remember that food eating healthy food
is so important but
if you eat healthy food and excess
calories and a surplus you'll still gain
weight so
we're still also looking at the right
portion sizes for you learning how to
eat
more voluminous foods more vegetables
higher
foods foods higher and fiber to keep you
full eating more food in general
but then you do want to learn about your
macronutrients and just learn you know
about fats and how they might be
impacting your goals overall
also as you guys know i'm a huge fan of
breakfast the research for fasting
is is good for gut health and gut health
is important
but the research for weight loss for
women is not as established
when you get into like the 16 hour
longer intermittent fasting windows i
personally don't
believe in it i don't teach it i don't
think there's enough research for there
especially because when you're dealing
with meal timing you're delaying
the amount of time before you have a
meal that is affecting your hormones and
so many women are our hormones are just
really messed up from
a lot of things over exercising dieting
restriction
lack of sleep work stress birth control
there's so
many things that can be impacting
women's hormones and i find that just
adding intermittent fasting on top of
that is just creating more hormonal
imbalance so
if you're looking to regulate your
hormones more i personally believe
breakfast and having a high protein
breakfast
pff breakfast is so so so important so i
love that emma is doing that
and sometimes i'll work out but
sometimes i like working out more at
night i really just struggle to work out
wherever i can fit it
and some days it just doesn't fit at all
i try to work out four to five
times a week but you know we can
lunch i like that attitude i think that
when you're in a maintenance mode like
emma doesn't
as far as i can tell she doesn't really
have any
she hasn't expressed on you know
publicly that she has any fitness goals
um if she's looking to maintain her
current you know
shape and whatever she feels happy in
her current body and she's eating
food enough food to feel happy and she's
trying to maintain
she can move into that maintenance mode
where she's at where she's like
sometimes i work out sometimes i don't
but she still tries to hit that 45 days
per week goal which is really solid
um i like that there's balance there i
like that she takes rest days
but that's not gonna be right for
everyone some people are not gonna
thrive in such a loose
situation i personally need structure
and i need routine so i like to work out
in the morning i
lift five days a week um i don't miss
that routine like i don't skip it ever
so i think
she's a great example of someone who is
like a little bit more carefree and it
works for her
because she doesn't slide out of that
routine entirely she's still going 45
days a week whenever she can
but for a lot of people it's going to be
hard to do that and still reach your
goals because
it's hard when you don't have a routine
to be consistent so if you're someone
who struggles with consistency
you know having more routine could be a
little bit more helpful in that matter
and also if you have a very specific
goal like fat loss
muscle gain improving your metabolism
improving your healthy habits in general
then having more of a routine and a plan
and a progression to that plan
is going to be absolutely critical but
for her she's like
in maintenance mode she's chilling it's
fine it fits her and that's good she
found what works for her which is really
important
for me is the neglected meal
okay i don't think about it much and
it's
always post me i never cook lunch i
could not tell you one time that i've
cooked a lunch
recently i've been ordering this salad
from this restaurant called zinc
and it's kale lentils carrots
hard boiled egg and like this nice salty
shalloty vinaigrette on top and it
sounds like it would be so
unpleasant and boring but it's actually
so good and so i've been eating that a
lot for lunch
sometimes i'll get like a burrito or
burrito bowl from a place called takaya
in la
it's so good they do cauliflower rice
they have
the best black beans great tofu
great tortillas lots of avocado in it
lots of salsa
or heirloom honestly i could go to
heirloom for every single meal
heirloom is a grocery store that also
does like hot bar
and they have the best vegetables some
of those get a crazy like
vegetable plate thing from there they
have like buffalo cauliflower where they
cauliflower the buffalo wings anyway i
can keep going about this
i'm i don't know if if she's vegan
oh i guess she had eggs so she's not or
i'm not sure if she has dietary
restrictions but all of those options
i don't know if you guys noticed were
all whole foods
really unprocessed single ingredient
foods
you know dressed up with some spices i
love that she used
some kind of sriracha or hot spice in
the morning on her breakfast it's a
great way to season food and also
spices temporarily increase your
metabolism
acutely for a few hours after eating so
you'll burn more calories at rest after
having spices in your food which is
great
and she's just focusing on the
vegetables which is so awesome she also
said
eggs and she you know healthy fats from
the avocado and
she mentioned tofu which is all you know
those are good sources the eggs and tofu
are
good sours of protein also the nuts that
are probably in those salads
and obviously the vegetables are so
great because they're really high in
fiber
which is going to help you stay full
satiated also help with your digestion
help regulate your um body weight a lot
of things
so i love that and and she's still
eating pfff even when she orders out
which is totally possible
um i think it's like really
unsustainable to say that you're never
going to eat out you do need to learn
how to order out in a restaurant and
feel confident about it
and make choices where like you're
satiated and you feel like you got that
craving satisfied
but you're also it was like a meal
and an act of self-care still you know
like you feel good about what you ate
and not crappy after because no one
likes that feeling
um and it's you know you can still order
out and make it
work for you and she totally is doing
that which is awesome
a vegetarian i was vegan for a little
bit but i'm a vegetarian just because
i grew up vegetarian so i've never had
meat in my diet
i continue to be a vegetarian mainly
because i'm a picky eater
the video from fried sweets um okay so
sh so she is vegetarian i think if
you're vegetarian i have a video on this
i'll link it here
for the top protein sources as a veg
you got to just focus on you know really
you got to make a plan for your protein
that day
because you could easily end up eating
like 30 to 40 grams of protein in a day
and it's not enough
if you're looking to build muscle as a
petite woman and muscle is so important
for improving your metabolism as petite
if you've watched any of my videos you
know uh so i would say if you're a
vegetarian watch that video make sure
you're prioritizing protein at every
meal as a vegetarian
and every little bit adds up so like
spinach has protein there's lots of
vegetables and plant-based
options seeds nutritional yeast like all
the options so
for emma she you know if she wanted to
build more muscle she would probably
have to find a way to just get a bit
more protein in there whether that's
like a high quality protein supplement
or just being more you know concerted
and more intentional with every meal
making sure it has 20 to 35 grams of
protein in it
mushrooms mayonnaise
ranch any type of like really overly
cooked steamed
leafy green no not a big fan of celery
i also don't like runny eggs any runny
egg yolk
out of here so snacks
i'm a big snacker actually is that true
it depends but my favorite snack for the
past year
has been these flax crackers they're
called mary's gone crackers they're like
flax seed other seed who knows what's in
it
bunch of seeds in a cracker and then it
tastes so good
and i ate those with spicy hummus
such a good snack it is kind of missing
a protein but any flax cracker you can
also make flaxseed like brittle
i think martha stewart has a really good
recipe on her
blog that's like a flaxseed cracker like
a panchi
situation my sister's made it and i've
seen it on her instagram looks really
good
but yeah this is a great snack hummus is
actually one of those
things that has its pff in itself it has
protein fat and
carb in it uh the cracker is a fibrous
carb
it has a lot of fiber it's great the
flax seed is awesome but if ever
i'd also add a little bit of protein in
there um
not 100 necessary but again if you're
trying to build muscle you'll probably
want to have a little bit of protein
whether that's
you know adding in a hard-boiled egg or
having you know a little
shake on the side or something just to
get a bit more protein in it italian
sauce
i would like to pause this to just say
like this video is long
and emma is eating a lot of food and i
really love that
i love that she eats you know it's it's
it can be scary what we see on the
internet in terms of
women of influence not eating enough
food
and i just think this is so far she's
eating a lot i just kind of skipped
ahead and
she's talking about more food in general
i'm just
glad to see she's being a good role
model and she's eating
hopefully enough calories in a day
obviously we don't see her portion sizes
but
the food she's eating in themselves are
nutrient dense that's a good sign
the hostage put that on there maybe some
green olives bake that for a little bit
put some nutritional yeast on that that
sounds weird
but it's really nutritional yeast
i missed if this was a snack or not but
she's having another meal or mini meal
this is great
i love that she's empowered herself to
cook at home you guys cooking
for yourself is so empowering
you don't have to be a good cook like i
if you've ever watched me cook
you will know i'm not a good chef but if
you can just learn how to prepare simple
things
for you that you enjoy it's like the
ultimate act of self-care
and it helps you ultimately have more
control over your nutrition and your
goals and
you know it's great to see someone like
emma who also is not a chef of any sort
just
in the kitchen making these foods for
herself on the daily i think that's
great
it's not like amazing but it's also like
it works but i'm also somebody that will
just
take a jar of peanut butter or take a
jar of almond butter
like any jar of nut butter i can find
and i'll just take a spoonful of it and
eat that recently
i i got sent this stuff called granola
butter okay so
eating peanut butter out of the jar
let's talk about this i have a very bad
history of like
jars and bags of things not a problem
anymore but for many years definitely
so if she just has a tablespoon like if
she has like about eight grams of
peanut butter that's awesome but like
who stops there you know it can be very
hard
when you open up the jar and you're
going in it to
stop so if you find you're someone that
cannot stop with the jars of the bags
i personally feel like it's very
positive to
eliminate the temptation temporarily
while you work on that
i you know a lot of times they're like
well you should you know you shouldn't
restrict
you absolutely should not restrict in my
case this wasn't restriction i was
eating when i wasn't hungry i was just
eating for other
reasons um and that wasn't serving me or
my goals
if i was hungry i would eat and if
you're hungry you absolutely should eat
you should honor your hunger but if you
find you eat out of the jar out of just
like temptation and like
it's such a palatable food it's just the
fat like it's just so good
salty right if you find that you're
eating when you're not hungry for stress
emotions other reasons eliminate
the temptation i was i've recently read
atomic habits by james clear i
highly highly recommend this book it has
a lot of really
awesome information in it and he talks
about how
people who seem like they have a lot of
willpower
don't actually have more willpower than
someone else they just eliminate
temptations
better so they don't you know for
example the peanut butter jar
if you look at someone like me i
actually don't have i don't buy peanut
butter
jars often i'll prefer like individual
packets or
i just won't buy it at all if i'm
feeling like i'm
in that state where like i wouldn't be
able to handle that it doesn't really
happen anymore because i've
worked through all these and i have
really good habits but
for a long time like you would just not
see temptations like that in my house i
don't buy things that make me feel like
crap because i will eat them
so one of the best things you can do in
building healthy habits is
not rely on your willpower just create
better environments for yourself to
thrive so that you're not
constantly tempted and tested
james clear talks about it really in a
really great way and i highly recommend
the book
because we aren't any different like you
and i if you struggle with willpower
i don't have more willpower than you i
just don't have as many temptations
because i've intentionally eliminated a
lot of them so
i think that that could be really
helpful for you if emma can
control herself like that's awesome but
you know if you are not like that like i
wasn't then don't beat yourself up just
you know do what you can to help you in
your current situation
one to two times a day is sparkling
water
with apple cider vinegar in it oh you
might be
really confused but i about that i mean
that's weird i get it
but it helps with my digestion and i
have really shitty
digestion so that's another one i also
like the flavor of it okay apple cider
vinegar i've people slide in my dms all
the time with this stuff
supplements apple cider vinegar you know
all that stuff and i get it
it's you know when journalists and the
media get a hold of like
these new trendy ingredients they will
just like shove it down our throat like
you'll see it on the cover magazines as
like some revolutionary weight loss
situation
i will just start by saying that uh this
those studies on apple cider vinegar
there is no research that shows it helps
improve digestion
and there's no studies that show yeah it
doesn't do that
in the research in the science
anecdotally like your next door neighbor
sure
like susan from across the street maybe
emma
maybe but what is probably happening
here is she's just
increased her she said she drinks it
with sparkling water
water helps improve your digestion
significantly it helps
move things about you need to have water
in order to like
have regular poos so i think she's just
hydrating more
and she's attributing the hydration
sorry she's attributing the apple cider
vinegar to her improved digestion
but it's more likely based on the
research that it's the just
her being more hydrated that's helping
with her digestion and bloating and
whatnot so
there just so you know and like this you
know you know the science there's not a
lot for apples out of
apple cider vinegar but it's also
probably not harmful so if you enjoy
drinking it then
you are welcome to drink it but i hate
soda i don't like sweet
drinks and to be honest i'm not really a
dessert person in general
you know i'm at dinner and somebody next
to me
orders like a big chocolate chip cookie
or something
when it's in front of me you best
believe i'm eating a lot of it
dinner time i love i love that she
doesn't restrict it's so good my
favorite meal of the day to be honest
because it's just like go crazy
if i'm cooking for myself it's usually
something pretty low maintenance
i'll take like some frozen vegetables of
some sort
heat those up cut up some tofu fry that
in some olive oil um mix that in with
the veggies
take some rice some brown rice mix that
in there
and then i love putting yellow curry
sauce all over that
and then i season it however i mean i
literally am like
so random with the seasonings salt
pepper
maybe throw some sesame seeds in there
maybe sometimes
sesame oil in there i don't even know if
that makes sense but i'll do it
i will also make pasta i love garbanzo
bean pasta
the bonsa brand yes and i'll literally
just make a bunch of that
it has a bunch of protein in it so it's
like easy and then i just make that and
i put pesto on it
in nutritional yeast and i'll eat a
whole bowl of that and call it a night
amen she makes cooking seem really easy
and it is it's not intimidating
especially if you take this approach
like she literally used
frozen veggies tofu
some seasoning and then threw in some
banza which banza is great it's a
chickpea pasta
now fonza is super processed like most
like vegan processed foods they're
processed
it's fortified with pro additional
protein
when i have a huge bowl of bonsai
personally i do have a stomach ache i
just
it's a little bit too much for me if i
have a smaller portion it's fine
and um you know it depends on the
individual but
it's good for her if she's adding
protein she's aware that she needs a
little bit more
and she's finding easy ways to cook for
herself that take like
you know less than 20 minutes it
probably took her like 15 minutes to
throw together that meal and it's
unprocessed and it's whole foods and
it's yummy and delicious it makes you
feel good
um so i just love that she's just
empowered like that and cooks a lot of
her own meals
ask for foods that i love but i don't
eat every day
i have quite a few different kind of
comfort meals
number one would have to be
monty's burgers in la
it's a vegan all vegan burger this is
legit making me hungry now guys like
and it's so it's so good and then i get
a side of it
and i get tater tots and i dip the pots
in the spicy habanero sauce and it's
okay i love this she's just gonna go on
now and talk about all the kind of like
foods that she likes to eat when she's
not cooking for herself and i think it's
awesome that she does this because if
you were strict ever having meals out
that are like
less healthy you know what i mean fun i
call them fun foods because they're not
unhealthy they're not bad right there's
no morality in food so we don't want to
label
foods it just doesn't help our brain
because then we associate
feelings of guilt and whatever when
we're eating bad foods
instead they're fun foods they're foods
you don't eat every day they're foods
that you eat like 20
of the time whatever alcohol desserts
foods like that
or you have you know a little bit of it
every day
she sounds like she's like pretty
healthy during the day and then she has
like certain days of the week where she
like likes to order out and like
go big whatever works for you um i think
overall emma's day has been i'm really
impressed i'm really impressed with emma
she
is eating pff at all her meals she's
cooking a lot for herself
she has a really flexible forgiving
mindset about her routine
which is great she's not too hard on
herself and then she doesn't restrict
which is awesome
like she's listening to her hunger cues
she eats out when she's
feeling like it and i think all of these
things combined
make for a really great healthy
lifestyle and honestly i'm just really
proud of her for
for having this this healthy lifestyle
and sharing it with younger women
because i'm sure
a lot of younger women watch this as
well i don't know i'm happy with it i
really
as a as a certified nutritionist i
totally approve of this day
she might need some more protein perhaps
but you know depends on where she's at
what her goals are what she wants to do
overall really really great day of
eating i hope you guys enjoyed watching
that with me it was also just really
entertaining to watch
please give us a like if you found it
entertaining or just you learn something
new
and i also want to let you guys know
i have a lot of videos on nutrition i
have a lot of videos on just like petite
women's health
all of that stuff take a look through my
videos follow
subscribe for more content tailored to
petite women and
i will see you guys next week bye
[Music]
you